>> Mike North: Let's try to drive
some data from our templates.
Sorry, drive some data from our
routes into our templates and
then we can call this step complete.
There is a lot of data in this project and
it's in the db.json file,
it's a top level file of the project.
Who prints anything anymore?
>> Mike North: Okay, so you can see this
is a very, a nice flat organization of
JSON where we've got messages,
channels, users and teams.
What I want you to do is just
grab a couple of these teams.
I don't really care how many.
Copy them to your clipboard and
then go to your team's route.
And we're just gonna
toss these into an array.
All teams,
>> Mike North: There we go.
So we've got three of them in there,
and we can close it up,
cuz I don't really care what's
in there at the moment.
Now the time has come for
us to use our model hook.
And this is how we could typically go and
fetch some data like use either ajax or
fetch or something else.
And retrieve that data and
then make it available in
this route's template.
Anything your model hook returns will be
available in your template for easy use.
Just call this.model in the template and
you'll get whatever this returns.
And if this returns a promise, you'll
get whatever that promise resolves to.
So it's another a sync function.
>> Mike North: And for
now we're just gonna return all teams.
And we can save.
Let's go and consume this data, teams.hbs.
So the team selector,
that's what contains all of these
little buttons to switch
from one team to another.
We're gonna have to pass this
data into the team selector.
We know how to do this, args, right?
So we'll just say, oops,
teams = this.model.
>> Mike North: By the way, if we wanted to
debug this just to make sure everything's
copacetic at this point,
you could also do log, this.model.
And it effectively is a console log.
There it is down here.
Right, there's that the array that
we're returning this console log, and
then there's also a debugger here,
just like in JavaScript.
And here we would do, following these
instructions we could do like context.
Hey, there's model, and there's our array.
So we can stop at this break point.
And if things are not looking right and
you're tracking things down,
this is a nice way to sorta search for
the problem and bisect problem areas and
figure out whether things have
made it into templates or not.
Everything looks good based
on those two little probes.
So let's turn our attention
to the team selector.
Using my handy dandy fiesco extension,
I can just click on this and
it will take me to TeamSelector.hbs.
And what I wanna do is,
these two look like the two buttons here,
and this, the add-team-button,
that's probably this little plus sign.
We'll leave that alone and
I wanna remove the hard-coded teams.
And I wanna replace them with something
that's based on the data that's been
passed to this template.
So I'll get rid of the Microsoft
one cuz we only need one
in order to build a loop around it.
And this is where we're going
to encounter the each helper.
So this is like a for
loop in your handle bars.
So we can say, each teams as team.
And the way I think about this,
it's almost like array.forEach.
Where this is a callback that is passed
to your forEach function, right?
You pass a function to forEach, that's
given an argument and it's invoked for
every item in the collection.
The reason I think about that is,
>> Mike North: That team,
is only valid in this scope.
I think of it as a call back
because there is in fact a closure
that is at work here, right?
So this is the third type
of reference to a variable
that you will find in templates.
The first at that means it's
an arg something that's passed in.
The second was this dot something.
That's how we know it lives
on the component, right?
And then there's third one where
we just have team, that we know
is happening because you're inside
something that's provided a limited and
local scope,
where that is a valid thing to use.
But there are three different ways,
three different things and
now they finally have
three different syntaxes.
So we can disambiguate between them.
So let's see what a team looks like,
thankfully, I actually lost it.
We can get it back, though.
Log teams,
I wanna see what a team looks like.
So it has an ID, an icon URL,
a name, and an order.
I'm not gonna read too
much about order here.
ID seems important,
this looks like a team ID.
I should probably put the ID there.
Something like that,
the link we've gotta obviously
replace that for
reasons we talked about previously.
So we're gonna link to the teams.team.
So it's like the teams.hbs for
LinkedIn in and
we're gonna say the model is the team ID.
>> Mike North: Model is what's used
to fill in the blank in that URL.
So if we go back to a router,
we have this team ID here.
So when you say I'm providing you a model,
it's the ID of the team.
You're filling in that team ID blank.
Without that, this URL cannot be built.
>> Mike North: Finally,
we've got an image here.
And we can replace that with team,
icon URL and
alt text,
>> Mike North: Team name.
Nothing else here looks team specific,
just a bunch of styling,
let’s give it a try.
Hey, there we go so we see a new team
pop up that was definitely not in
the hard coded HTML that we were given.
So we’re looping over this array.
For each item in the array,
we’re creating a little bit of template.
We’re using link 2 and passing it
the route we wish to send the user to,
we're passing in a model so
that we can fill in the blank.
Here's your team ID.
And clicking on each of these, we won't
necessarily see changes in the UI,
but in the URL at least the Li should
change to Ms and the Avengers and back.
>> Mike North: We're not done yet.
I mean, obviously there are improvements
we need to make in next steps,
but the links are operating properly.
And we have successfully passed some data
down from the routes to the templates.
>> Speaker 2: What's the syntax for
routes with multiple models in them?
>> Mike North: Models.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Something like that,
>> Mike North: Make sense?
>> Speaker 3: So if you did models,
would you give it an array, or?
>> Mike North: Yeah, this might even work.
And it does,
>> Mike North: Team.ID, hm, interesting.
Sorry, let me just check our sample data.
Cuz I see it used to be LI,
but now it's LlnkedIn.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mike North: Good, so that checks out.
There you go, array helper and
then the ordered elements of the array.